<html>
  <head>
    <title>FIX Converter</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Background</h1>

    <p>This code is an attempt to create a <b>reference implementation</b>
    of the translation between tag=value and FIXML.
    It attempts to correctly convert valid messages, but it doesn't pay
    detailed attention to what is valid and what is not.
    It will spot and reject certain invalid messages, but not all (use the
    FIXML XSDs to confirm the validity of the message).
    It is not performance optimised, but does use appropriate datastructures
    (such as hash maps) to avoid obvious problems.</p>

<!--...sFIX definition:4:-->
<h2>FIX definition</h2>

<p>The definition of the FIX protocol is held in the <b>FIX Repository</b>,
and recently (as of 2009 onwards) there has been a new and easier to use
version of this known as the <b>Unified FIX Repository</b>.
This is known to be the strategic direction.</p>

<p>Vendor supplied tools can import, amend and export this format.
They can also generate FIXML XSD schemas from it.</p>

<p>The Unified FIX Repository is therefore the ideal configuration from which
to drive FIX tools, such as this FIX Converter (and indeed, an earlier attempt
to write a FIX Converter driven off of the FIXML XSDs failed when it was
realised that information relating to repeating groups and other areas is
missing).</p>
<!--...e-->
<!--...sFIX representations:4:-->
<h2>FIX representations</h2>

<p>FIX has at least two representations: <b>tag=value</b> and <b>FIXML</b>.</p>

<!--...stag\61\value:4:-->
<h3>tag=value</h3>

<p>tag=value is a compact representation, a typical message might start with :-</p>
<pre>
8=FIX.4.4&lt;SOH&gt;9=176&lt;SOH&gt;35=D&lt;SOH&gt;49=AFUNDMGR&lt;SOH&gt;56=ABROKER&lt;SOH&gt;34=521...
</pre>
<p>where &lt;SOH&gt; is ASCII character 1.</p>

<p>FIX Engines typically speak tag=value over network links between each other.</p>

<p>The <b>FAST</b> wire protocol is a compressed version of the tag=value
format.
We could imagine other compressed variants of tag=value, perhaps using ASN.1,
but note that some of the FIX HFT discussion recently has proposed a number of
measures that result in a different protocol rather than a different
representation of the current protocol.</p>
<!--...e-->
<!--...sFIXML:4:-->
<h3>FIXML</h3>

<p>FIXML is an alternative XML based representation of FIX.
A typical example might look like this :-</p>
<pre>
&lt;FIXML xmlns="http://www.fixprotocol.org/FIXML-4-4" v="4.4"&gt;
    &lt;Order ID="123456" Side="2" TxnTm="2001-09-11T09:30:47-05:00"
           Typ="2" Px="93.25" Acct="26522154"&gt;
        &lt;Hdr Snt="2001-09-11T09:30:47-05:00" PosDup="N" PosRsnd="N"
             SeqNum="521" SID="AFUNDMGR" TID="ABROKER"/&gt;
        &lt;Instrmt Sym="IBM" ID="459200101" Src="1"/&gt;
        &lt;OrdQty Qty="1000"/&gt;
    &lt;/Order&gt;
&lt;/FIXML&gt;
</pre>

<p>FIX in this representation can be easier to process, due to the ready
availability of standard and open XML tools.</p>

<p>Many corporate messaging systems are XML based, in order to handle
ISO 20022, FpML, XBRL and SWIFT (as MT/XML).
Being able to represent FIX as FIXML can enable the processing of FIX by
these messaging systems.</p>

<p>This further enables the use of the FIXML XSDs for message validation,
the use of XSLT, Schematron or ISO Schematron for cross-field validation,
and even the use of XQuery rules for cross-field validation.
Routing and triggering based upon XPath expression is also enabled.</p>

<p>The use of FIXML instead of tag=value is usually at a non-trivial
performance cost, and may not be for everyone.
Therefore FIXML may play less in the pre-trade space, and more in the
post-trade space.</p>

<p>Prior to FIX.4.4, the FIXML representations are defined by DTD, not by XSD.
The Unified FIX Repository annotates them with <code>fixml="0"</code>
suggesting that schemas shouldn't be generated from it.
These earlier forms of FIXML seem to use elements where the modern form
uses attributes.</p>

<!--...sWhat variants of FIXML can the FIX Converter cope with\63\:4:-->
<h4>What variants of FIXML can the FIX Converter cope with?</h4>

<p><b>This converter only understands valid FIXML as of version 4.4 onwards</b>.
The example shown previously is an example of this, and a good way to spot
such messages is to note that the CompIDs are <code>SID</code> and
<code>TID</code> attributes of the <code>Hdr</code> element.
Unfortunately, the FIX Converter doesn't support the older 4.2 style of FIXML.</p>

<p>If you were to add metadata to the FIX.4.2 entry in the
Unified FIX Repository, you could generate FIXML schemas in the new 4.4
style (although of course, these wouldn't match the official 4.2 DTD).
FIX Converter would then be able to handle this alternative XML representation
of FIX.4.2.
It would also be necessary to ensure messages didn't directly include
repeatingGroups, but instead used componentRefs to components containing
repeatingGroups.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, it is common practice to send FIX messages in which the
elements are not in the appropriate FIX namespace (or any namespace for that
matter).
The next two examples break the rules in this way.
FIX Converter can cope with this (versioning related constraints below).
It always generates FIXML with the right namespace.</p>

<p><a href="http://fixwiki.fixprotocol.org/fixwiki/FPL:FIXML_Syntax">
      <code>http://fixwiki.fixprotocol.org/fixwiki/FPL:FIXML_Syntax</code></a>
has a couple of FIXML examples, reproduced here.</p>

<p>It shows an example of "FIXML 4.2 Version", which is somewhat verbose.
A good way to spot such messages is that they have a <code>FIXMLMessage</code>
element and the CompIDs are <code>CompID</code> elements within
<code>Sender</code> and <code>Target</code> elements.
The example looks like this :-</p>
<pre>
&lt;FIXML&gt;
    &lt;FIXMLMessage&gt;
        &lt;Header&gt;
            &lt;PossDupFlag Value="N"/&gt;
            &lt;PossResend Value="N"/&gt;
            &lt;SendingTime&gt;20020103-12  00  01&lt;/SendingTime&gt;
            &lt;Sender&gt;
                &lt;CompID&gt;AFUNDMGR&lt;/CompID&gt;
            &lt;/Sender&gt;
            &lt;Target&gt;
                &lt;CompID&gt;ABROKER&lt;/CompID&gt;
            &lt;/Target&gt;
        &lt;/Header&gt;
        &lt;ApplicationMessage&gt;
            &lt;Order&gt;
                <i>... stuff</i>
            &lt;/Order&gt;
        &lt;/ApplicationMessage&gt;
    &lt;/FIXMLMessage&gt;
&lt;/FIXML&gt;
</pre>

<p>Note that in the example, the <code>SendingTime</code> should actually
be <code>2002-01-03T12:00:01</code>.</p>

<p>The wiki also shows something it calls "FIXML 4.4 Schema Version".
However, in the FIXML 4.4 schema, the CompIDs are not elements
called <code>Sndr</code> or <code>Tgt</code>, they are attributes
called <code>SID</code> and <code>TID</code> of the <code>Hdr</code> element.
The example therefore <i>incorrectly</i> looks like this :-</p>
<pre>
&lt;FIXML&gt;
    &lt;Order ClOrdID="123456" Side="2"
            TransactTm="2001-09-11T09:30:47-05:00"
            OrdTyp="2" Px="93.25" Acct="26522154"&gt;
        &lt;Hdr Snt="2001-09-11T09:30:47-05:00"
             PosDup="N" PosRsnd="N" SeqNum="521"&gt;
             &lt;Sndr ID="AFUNDMGR"/&gt;
             &lt;Tgt ID="ABROKER"/&gt;
        &lt;/Hdr&gt;
        &lt;Instrmt Sym="IBM" ID="459200101" IDSrc="1"/&gt;
        &lt;OrdQty Qty="1000"/&gt;
    &lt;/Order&gt;
&lt;/FIXML&gt;
</pre>

<p>Note that even the the <code>fixml-schema-4-4-examples-20040109.zip</code>
file that can be downloaded from the FIX Protocol site include a file
called <code>PositionReportExample1.xml</code> has this incorrect
<code>Hdr</code> structure.</p>

<p>I have also seen variants of the above where the sender CompID
element was called <code>Snd</code> instead of <code>Sndr</code>.</p>

<p>In <code>fixml-schema-4-4-examples-20040109.zip</code>
the included <code>AllocationInstruction.xml</code> file has no namespace,
has bad dates, and has the wrong repeating group structure.</p>

<p>As incorrect messages like this don't agree with the FIX Repository,
or schemas generated from it, the FIX Converter doesn't support them.</p>
<!--...e-->
<!--...e-->
<!--...e-->
<!--...sThe need for conversion:4:-->
<h2>The need for conversion</h2>

<p>Just as the SWIFT MT (a compact binary format) is transported over the
SWIFT network between organisations and SWIFT MT/XML is sometimes transported
between applications within an organisation, we can forsee FIX tag=value
being spoken between organisations (such as brokers and fund managers)
and FIXML being used within these organisations.</p>
<!--...e-->

  </body>
</html>
